Dear Google, it's a pleasure to apply to you finally!
my name is Tommaso Romano and I'm a BSc in Computer science, an MSc student, and a Computer Science enthusiast.
( If you prefer an interactive resume with details of works and recognitions, I highly suggest you visit tommasoromano.com )
I hope to write as briefly as possible and not be boring or annoying.

My journey as Software Engineer started during my first years of high school when I self-taught Game Development with Unity and C#. Starting as a high school hobby when I was 15 years old, POLYWAR, a low poly online multiplayer FPS, had more than 500k downloads from its free demo on Gamejolt. Partnered with New Reality Games, POLYWAR was released on Steam at the end of 2016. Although it was a hobby project, it sold several thousands of copies and allowed me to discover and learn about the entrepreneurial and development world.

After the release of POLYWAR, always during high school, I explored different Software Engineering fields like Web Development and UI/UX. I began to work as a freelancer using multiple technologies (from React and Next.js to Wordpress and Woocommerce) on multiple websites such as citterio.com, shoedepot.it, ferrarostudiolegale.eu, tommasoromano.com, exagongames.com, playpolywar.com. I also got an internship at Twico: an Italian web agency that helped me learn new technologies and production pipelines of web development.

Meanwhile, I started the development of a new game titled: Relow. A multiplayer FPS set in procedural worlds that was showcased 2 times at Milan Games Week (2019, 2020) and at Svilupparty Bologna (2019). It took me almost two years to complete, but in the middle of my last year of high school, I finally managed to release it, as a one-man team, on Steam. Sold thousands of copies and got many articles, interviews, invitations, and was featured several times on Steam events (like the Made in Italy) but most importantly I met and got many friends in the development world.

Before continuing with my University years, it's worth mentioning my love and dedication to another hobby: athletics. Although I had many recognitions (1 silver medal and 2 bronze medals in the Italian Championships), what truly athletics thought me was to focus on an objective, fight for it, and improve myself every day. I still practice several times a week to compete at the Italian Championships with my team.

I started Computer Science at the University of Milan full of energy and craving to learn new things. After 3 years, this October of 2022, I got my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and I couldn't be happier. During these years I continued my projects and works, using the new notions learned during the lessons to improve every product. I met many students full of ideas that influenced and helped me discover and learn new technologies and fields of Computer Science.

During these years I started many hobby projects that became works. For example I build an automation software for Instagram account management that became popular on Fiverr and got several hundreds of clients from all over the world. 

Thanks to the several events and developer friends I made in the previous years, I joined in the founding team of 5 people of Dreambits Studio to develop War of Wheels, a fast-paced multiplayer game about figthining cars in a medieval-punk environment. Winners of Bologna Game Farm 2021, funding and entrepreneurial accelerator dedicated to innovative startups, we grew not only in numbers, almost 20 developers, but also in notions thanks to the coaching sessions. Also, the founder and I, participated in many expositions and events like First Playable (Pisa), GamesCom (Cologne), GamesConnection (Paris) and we pitched the project to several international publishers and investors, shared ideas and met developers from all over the world.

Finally, I want to mention two other works: Smart Bear EU and FamaLabs. During the University internship for the thesis, I had the opportunity to work in the ML/Data Science field on Smart Bear which is a big data platform funded by the European Union, offering evidence-based interventions thanks to predictive analytics. Using technologies such as Python, PySpark, SparkSQL, MLlib, and scikit-learn, I developed software for data imputation, analysis, visualization, and studying the performance of different algorithms. On the other hand, during the many events I've attended, I became friends with the founders of FamaLabs and I decided to join them to deepen my knowledge of Web Development and Frontend Engineering. Using cutting-edge technologies like Next.js, React, TypeScript, Redux, Nx, Storybook, and MaterialU, I helped to engineer the architecture and reusable software for the project MAP: Medical Adaptive Platform, a React dashboard built for doctors to easily manage CRF, Case Report Forms, surveys and more.

I hope this application wasn't boring and it didn't sound like self-aggrandizement. To sum up, the message I want to leave is that I'm curious and I love learning every day new things, not only in Computer Science or Software Engineering but in every aspect of the universe.

Hope to hear back from you soon!
Tommaso 